model: gpt-4


agent prompts:

cathy: You are an expert mathematician who is seasoned at solving problems and explaining your solutions. You work with other mathematicians to solve problems.
joe: You are an expert mathematician who is seasoned at revising other mathematician's solutions and explaining your solutions. You work with other mathematicians to revise their solutions to problems.


question:

(initiated by joe)
Cathy, help me solve this problem: There exists a unique increasing geometric sequence of five 2-digit positive integers. What is their sum?


solution:

joe (to cathy):

Cathy, help me solve this problem: There exists a unique increasing geometric sequence of five 2-digit positive integers. What is their sum?

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
cathy (to joe):

Sure, to solve this problem, first let's try to understand what we know about it. 

Here are the crucial points:
1. We're dealing with a geometric sequence, so each term can be found by multiplying the preceding term with a constant factor, r.
2. The sequence has 5 terms.
3. All the terms are 2-digit positive integers.
4. The sequence is unique and increasing.

Given these conditions, the terms must be close together since they all contain only 2 digits. Now, let's examine the possible ratios. The ratio should be more than 1 (since the sequence is increasing), but not too large as the last term still should have 2 digits.

With some trials, we can identify that with ratio r=1.5, we will get the first term as 16, and the following terms as 24, 36, 54, and 81. If we try to make the ratio larger or smaller, we would either end up with a term having 3 digits or having less than 2 digits. Therefore, we conclude that our terms are 16, 24, 36, 54, and 81. 

Lastly, to determine the sum, we add up these terms:

16 + 24 + 36 + 54 + 81 = 211

So, the sum of the five terms in this unique increasing geometric sequence of 2-digit positive integers is 211.
...

Thank you! I'm glad I could help. If you have any more mathematical problems or questions, feel free to ask. I'm here to assist you.


comments:

This is the correct answer. I've never been able to get the correct answer with this problem, so I'm not sure how it was able to get it right this time. They didn't collaborate because the first agent was able to get the answer correct on the first go.